# SlainteLink
Web3 based medical data storage system
On 14th May 2021, the HSE suffered a massive ransomware attack. (Connor, 2021). This attack resulted in the encryption of 80% of the HSE server, preventing health professionals from accessing patients’ records. 
During the lockdown I had started learning about blockchain technology and the concept of smart contracts. A Smart contract is simple program written in a language called Solidity. Solidity is an object-oriented programming language. It was specifically created for the Ethereum Network which is the largest Layer one protocol network for smart contracts. It is used for constructing and designing smart contracts on Blockchain platforms and is a robust language that is easy to interact with through the use of the cloud-based https://remix.ethereum.org. This program will run when a particular set of conditions are met. Smart contracts are used to validate transactions or agreements between parties or programs and ensure compliance and most importantly, security.
My Project involves the creation of a Decentralised application (dApp) that will allow medical personnel or patients to access medical records. Most importantly, it will allow the records to be updated securely and will ensure that no one person or group will have the authority over or possession of an individual’s medical records. By storing the information on a dynamic and scalable blockchain, the medical information will be secure from theft and deletion, and it will be impossible to amend old records to cover up medical mistakes. 
I started my project in May 2022 by creating a basic smart contract and deploying it to an Ethereum testnet called Goerli. I used Ethereum from a UCLA faucet to execute the contract. Once I was able to quickly run the Smart Contract, I built a simple website and connected it to the deployed Smart Contract, using a JavaScript API which I found on GitHub. In its current iteration, every hashable event that takes place on my alpha site is secured and validated by the Goerli EtherScan.
My project is built on the new Ethereum Proof of Stake blockchain which successfully transitioned from a Proof of Work blockchain the end of September. This Proof of stake model will enable the HSE to ensure added speed per transaction and more reliability. This PoS model will decrease energy use and hash time saving the HSE time and money.
My Hypothesis is that a decentralised Web3 based medical records system can be created that will be scalable, cheap, fast, and most importantly, secure from future ransomware attacks.
